**NOTE**: Version 0.13 is not yet released, and this is an unpublished draft. To
publish:

-   Amend the first paragraph if the release has been delayed.

-   Add prebuilt link to prebuilt binaries.

-   Add replacement for `edit:history:list`.

Version 0.13 has been released almost 17 months (!) after 0.12, bringing many
new features and bugfixes.

As usual, there are [prebuilt binaries](https://elv.sh/get) for most common
platforms.

# Breaking changes

-   This release sees a total rewrite of the line editor. As a result, there
    have been some changes to its API, the `edit:` module:

    -   Binding tables no longer support the `default` key for overriding the
        default behavior of modes. All the `edit:<mode>:default` functions
        have been removed: `edit:completion:default`, `edit:history:default`,
        `edit:insert:default`, `edit:listing:default` and
        `edit:navigation:default`.

    -   The `edit:listing:backspace` function has been removed. There is no
        replacement; Backspace handling is now baked into the default behavior
        and no key binding is needed.

    -   The `edit:insert-key` function has been removed. There is no
        replacement; key insertion is now baked into the default behavior and
        no key binding is needed.

    -   The `edit:lastcmd:accept-line` function has been removed. Use
        `edit:listing:accept` instead.

    -   The `edit:-narrow-read` function and the `edit:narrow:` module have
        been removed. Used `edit:listing:start-custom` instead.

    -   The `edit:styled` function has been removed. Used `styled` instead.

    -   The `edit:insert:start` function has been removed. Use
        `edit:listing:close` instead.

    -   The `edit:location:matcher` variable and
        `edit:location:match-dir-pattern` function have been removed. There is
        no replacement yet; the location matcher is not customizable now,
        although it may be made customizable again in a future version.

    -   The `edit:completion:trigger-filter` function has been removed. The
        completion mode now always focuses on the filter, and it is no longer
        possible to focus on the main buffer during completion.

    -   The `edit:history:list` function has been removed. There is no
        replacement yet.

-   The names of basic colors used in `styled` has changed to be more standard:

    -   The `lightgray` color (ANSI code 37) is now called `white`.

    -   The `gray` color (ANSI code 90) is now called `bright-black`.

    -   The `white` color (ANSI code 97) is now called `bright-white`.

    -   All the `lightX` (ANSI codes 90 to 97) colors have been renamed to
        `bright-X`.

# Notable fixes and enhancements

-   The editor now has a minibuffer, bound to <span class="key">Alt-x</span>
    by default. The minibuffer allows you to execute editor commands without
    binding them to a key.

-   The editor now has an experimental "instant mode" that can be activated
    with `edit:-instant:start`. It is not bound by default. The instant mode
    executes the code on the command line every time it changes.

    **WARNING**: Beware of unintended consequences when using destructive
    commands. For example, if you type `sudo rm -rf /tmp/*` in instant mode,
    Elvish will attempt to execute `sudo rm -rf /` when you typed so far.

-   The `styled` builtin now supports more color spaces:

    -   Colors from the xterm 256-color palette can be specified as `colorN`,
        such as `color22`.

    -   24-bit RGB colors can be specified as `#RRGGBB`, such as `#00ffa0`.

    Proper terminal support is required to display those colors.

-   JSON output of `-compileonly` has been fixed, thanks to @sblundy
    ([PR #874](https://pr.elv.sh/874)).

-   In redirections, names for the 3 standard files may be used in place of
    numeric file descriptors, thanks to @jiujieti
    ([PR #869](https://pr.elv.sh/869)).

-   Code such as `x = $x` where `$x` has not been defined now correctly
    results in a compilation error, thanks to @jiujieti
    ([PR #872](https://pr.elv.sh/872)).

-   The `while` special form now supports an `else` clause, thanks to @0x005c
    ([PR #863](https://pr.elv.sh/863)). This feature was previously
    documented but missing implementation.

-   The command `%` no longer crashes Elvish when the divisor is 0, thanks to
    @0x005c ([PR #866](https://pr.elv.sh/866)).
